---
title: "Weekly coffee conversations with Ricardo G. Sousa"
date: 2022-02-02T13:05:00+01:00
author: Ricardo G. Sousa
image : "images/blog/blog-mentorship-3.jpg"
bg_image: "images/featue-bg.jpg"
categories: ["Mentorship"]
tags: ["Mentorship"]
draft: false
type: "post"
---


Our team is committed to contributing to the discussion and sharing updates related to our national AI ecosystem. Our objective is to smooth the pathways between fundamental research, applications, and business.  

For that purpose, our Principal Investigator, Ricardo G. Sousa, started, in February, with informal one-on-one weekly coffee conversations.

These conversations are aimed at early-stage researchers and late-year undergraduates keen to understand:

- How iFetch is pushing the boundaries of Conversational Commerce at FARFETCH?
- How can a collaborative project with two renowned Portuguese Universities and CMU disrupt our e-commerce?

And, naturally,

- Where dialogue policies play a pivotal role in engaging our customers with the brands;
- How Multimodal Representation Learning can support our Conversational Agent;
- How we are scaling our AI System.

The above is of paramount importance because customers prefer native text messages when communicating with brands. But, how can iFetch fill the gap? Also, how to provide the tools for quick and seamless access to Farfetch, everywhere our users are and when they need us?

There will be many other questions that I am more than open to answering. These sessions will be an unstructured and agenda-less conversation. I kindly request participants to schedule via my open calendar with a list of topics they would like to see discussed.

Secure your slot! Let's Talk! - [Calendar](https://zcal.co/ricardo.sousa/letstalk)


----
**Disclaimer**: We are NOT bearing these conversations as an opportunity for marketing job offers.

----
Blog photo by [Kris Atomic](https://unsplash.com/s/photos/coffee-cafe?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText).
